# Credit-Risk-Analysis

## Background, Purpose and Task

Background and Purpose: 

LendingClub is a peer-to-peer lending services company. LendingClub management is seeking to improve the reliability and efficiency of their loan experience. Jill-the lead Data Scientist-would like to use machine learning to predict credit risk. Using a good machine learning model to predict credit risk will lead to a more accurate identification of good candidates for loans, which will in turn lead to low default rates. 

Task:
I have been tasked with assisting Jill in implementing this plan. Using the credit card dataset from LendingClub, I will test 6 different machine learning models. First, I will oversample the data using the RandomOverSampler and SMOTE models, and then undersample the data using the the ClusterCentroids model. Next, I will use the SMOTEENN model to implement a combinatorial approach of over and undersampling. I will then compare the BalancedRandomForestClassifier machine learning model with the EasyEnsembleClassifier to predict credit risk.

Once these analyses are complete, I will evaluate the performance of these models to conclude whether its advisable to use them for predicting credit risk. 

## Results
There were six machine learning models tested in this analysis.

1. Naive Random Oversampling: The balanced accuracy score was 65.7%, the precision and recall score for the high_risk group was 1% and 71% respectively, and for the low_risk group it was 100% and 60%.
2. SMOTE Oversampling: The balanced accuracy score was 66.2%, the precisionn and recall score for the high_risk group was 1% and 63% respectively, and for the low_risk group it was 100% and 69%.
3. Undersampling: The balanced accuracy score was 54.4%, the precision and recall score for the high_risk group was 1% and 69% respectively, and for the low_risk group it was 100% and 40%.
4. Combinatation (Over and Under) Sampling: The balanced accuracy score was 64.5%, the precision and recall score for the high_risk group was 1% and 72% respectively, and for the low_risk group it was 100% and 57%.
5. Balanced Random Forest Classifier: The balanced accuracy score was 78.9%, the precision and recall score for the high_risk group was 3% and 70% respectively, and for the low_risk group it was 100% and 87%.
6. Easy Ensemble AdaBoost Classifier:  The balanced accuracy score was 92.2%%, the precision and recall score for the high_risk group was 7% and 91% respectively, and for the low_risk group it was 100% and 93%.

## Summary and Recommendations:

Precision Scores Summary:
The precision score for the high-risk group was consistently very low (1%-7%) for all models. Low precision is indicative of a large number of false positives, i.e many good candidates for loans will be marked as high-risk. In contrast, the precision for the low-risk group was very high (100%) for all models, which means that there is a low chance of false positives - so candidates that are marked as low-risk are most probably low-risk. 

Recall Scores Summary:
The recall score for the high risk group was moderatly high (63%-72%) for all models other than the EasyEnsembleClassifier which has a high score of 91%. A high recall score reflects a high probability for the classifier to find all the positive samples i.e all high-risk candidates will often be identified. In contract, the recall score for low-risk groups was very low for the first four models (40%-69%), however it was higher for the BalancedRandomForestClassifier (87%), and highest for the EasyEnsembleClassifier (93%). This means the EasyEnsembleClassifier model will often identify all low risk candidates.

Model with Best Scores Summary:
In summary, the EasyEnsembleClassifier had the best scores for accuracy, precision, and recall. The balanced accuracy score was much higher than the other models (92.2%). Also, the recall scores for both the high-risk and low-risk groups were strong (91% and 93%, respectively) meaning that the model will identify most high-risk and low-risk candidates. The precision value for the low-risk group is also really high (100%) therefore all candidates marked as low-risk will actually be low-risk. However, although the precision value generated by this model for high-risk candidates is higher than that of other models, it is still very low (7%). This low precision value means that many low-risk candidates will be marked as high-risk i.e many good candites for loans will be marked as high-risk. 

Recommendation:
Since this is an analysis of credit risk, it is better to have high sensitivity/recall and low precision scores rather than high precision and low sensitivty/recall scores. This is because it is better to be more likely to label candidates as high-risk (bad) rather than low-risk (good). It is safer for the bank to be more selective in labelling candidates as good so that the bank does not easily give out loans and in turn suffer low default rates. Therefore, it is advisable to use the EasyEnsembleClassifier model to predict credit risk since it will selectively predict good candidates for loans. 



